.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Mike Burns <mike@mike-burns.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.\"
.\" Remove `\&' from the line below.
.Dd Nov 1, 2015
.Dt BYTESTREAM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bytestream
.Nd GUI for running desktop applications
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm bytestream
.Op Ar name
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility presents all available desktop entries and runs the selected
application. Any placeholders in the executable are prompted for and expanded
as appropriate.
.Pp
If passed the exact name of an application, it will run that application
instead.
.
.Ss Keyboard Shortcuts
An application in the list can be selected by typing the case-insensitive name
of the program.
.Pp
.\" In the following descriptions, ^X means control-X.
.Bl -tag -width XXXXXXXXXXXX
.It Ic Enter , Ic Alt-R
Run the selected application.
.It Ic Shift-ENTER
Run the selected application, bypassing all dialogs.
.It Ic Up
Select the prior application.
.It Ic Down
Select the next application.
.It Ic ESC , Ic Alt-C
Quit.
.El
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.
This program makes use of the GTK+ library, which in turn supports many
environment variables.  Since we do not control these environment variables we
instead suggest you look in the
.Lk https://developer.gnome.org/gtk3/stable/gtk-running.html GTK documentation .
.
.Pp
The
.Li .desktop
files are searched using the XDG environment variables, which you can read more
about in the
.Lk http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/latest/ar01s03.html XDG Base Directory Specification .
In particular, the
.Ev XDG_DATA_DIR
and
.Ev XDG_DATA_HOME
environment variables are used.
.Pp
If needed, the desired terminal emulator is pulled from the
.Ev TERMINAL
environment variable. The default is
.Li xterm ,
as found in your search path.
.
.Sh FILES
The desktop entry files are found under the
.Pa applications
directory under the system data directories and the user data directory. This
can be controlled by the
.Ev XDG_DATA_DIR
environment variable. The default application directories are:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Pa /usr/local/share/applications ,
.It
.Pa /usr/share/applications ,
and
.It
.Pa $HOME/.local/share/applications .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To see all known applications, pass no arguments:
.Pp
.Dl bytestream
.Pp
Run a specific program, prompting for its flags:
.Pp
.Dl bytestream Qq Firefox Web Browser
.Pp
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr xdg-open 1
.Sh STANDARDS
This makes heavy use of the
.Lk http://standards.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/desktop-entry-spec-1.1.html Desktop Entry Specification 1.1 .
.Pp
Files are found according to the
.Lk http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/ XDG Base Directory Specification .
.\" .Lk http://standards.freedesktop.org/menu-spec/menu-spec-1.1.html Desktop Menu Specification 1.1 .
.\" http://standards.freedesktop.org/icon-naming-spec/
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -split
.An "Mike Burns" Aq Mt mike@mike-burns.com
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
